My name's David. We're in a small village near Chicago. My cousin's getting married. My father and her father are twins. A lot of relatives are here for the wedding party. We're very busy. My uncle's friend is making palov. My sister Susan and Aunt Keane are making cakes. My mother's helping her niece with her wedding dress. My grandparents are here too. They're very old. They live in Chicago. I'm making a video and taking photos. It's great. I want to be a reporter.
Alisher Navoi was a great poet. He was born in Herat on 9 February 1441. Alisher Navoi got a very good education. He was a good architect and he designed a lot of schools, hospitals, bridges, roads and canals. Navoi's poems in old Uzbek are 'Chor-Devon'. His poems in Persian were collected and called 'Devoni-Foni'. His most important work is the 'Quintuple', five poems from 1483 and 1485. Alisher Navoi lived his last years in Herat. He died on 3 January 1501.
Amir Temur was bom on 9 April 1336 In the village of Hojailgor near Shakhrisabz. His father was a rich man whose name was Amir Taragay. His mother was a noble woman. He was strong and handsome. His father had many servants. When he was 12 years old he began to rule over them. When he was a young man he began to go to war. He was a good horseman. In Europe he was called Tamerlane.
The British often think their animals are like people. For example in Britain animals can have jobs like people. British Rail has cats and pays them for their work. Their job is to catch mice. There is usually one cat per station. They get food and free medical help. The cats don't catch a lot of mice but they are very popular with the British Rail staff and travellers.
South America is famous for its wild animals. There are many kinds. We saw some of them. We drove to the jungle in the north of Brazil. We were really lucky. We walked very quietly and we saw a jaguar. It is a kind of South American cheetah. It was beautiful and very fast. I was really scared. I think Jaguars like eating hedgehogs!
In Brazil we took a helicopter to the desert. There we met an unusual animal: an armadillo. Armadillos aren't very big but they are very strong. They have got a 'house' on their backs like a tortoise. Armadillos don't eat hedgehogs - they eat insects!
Then we went by boat up the Amazon river in the east of Brazil. It is the biggest river in South America. We saw alligators there. They were three metres long, fast and have big teeth! They are like crocodiles. We didn't stay there long. We didn't know. Maybe alligators like eating hedgehogs too!
When I was five I knew about astronomy. When I was 11  I wanted to become an astronaut. After school I went into the army and studied astrophysics. Before I became an astronaut I worked at NASA. And then one day they told me they wanted me to go into space. My dream came true. They chose me for 'Challenger 3'.
In Britain people buy food in supermarkets, small shops and markets. Supermarkets sell fruit, vegetables and all kinds of food and TVs, books and other things too. Some are open all night. Small shops sell food and other things too. For example, people can buy pens there. Some shops are open every day.